# Deep Learning for Anti-Money Laundering

## Introduction
Money laundering is the illegal process of making large amounts of money or we can say the “dirty” money generated by criminal activity, such as drug trafficking or terrorist funding, appears to have come from a legitimate source. The money from criminal activity is considered dirty, and the process "launders" it to make it look clean. Money laundering is a serious financial crime that is employed by white-collar and street-level criminals alike. Most financial companies have anti-money-laundering (AML) policies in place to detect and prevent this activity. There are many ways to launder money, from the simple to the very complex. One of the most common techniques is to use a legitimate, cash-based business owned by a criminal organization. For example, if the organization owns a restaurant, it might inflate the daily cash receipts to funnel illegal cash through the restaurant and into the restaurant's bank account. After that, the funds can be withdrawn as needed. These types of businesses are often referred to as "fronts." Governments around the world have stepped up their efforts to combat money laundering in recent decades, with regulations that require financial institutions to put systems in place to detect and report suspicious activity. The amount of money involved is substantial: According to a 2018 survey from PwC, global money laundering transactions account for roughly 1 dollar trillion to 2$ trillion annually or some 2% to 5% of global GDP. Deep learning is an artificial intelligence function that imitates the workings of the human brain in processing data and creating patterns for use in decision making. Deep learning is a subset of machine learning in artificial intelligence (AI) that has networks capable of learning unsupervised from data that is unstructured or unlabeled. Also known as deep neural learning or deep neural network.


## Motivation
A traditional approach to detecting money laundering might rely on the amount of transaction that ensues, while a deep learning nonlinear technique would include time, geographic location, IP address, type of retailer, and any other feature that is likely to point to fraudulent activity. Money laundering (ML) is a serious crime which makes it necessary to develop detection methods in transactions. Some researches have been carried on, but the problem is not thoroughly solved. With neural networks, we aim to combat the serious crime of money laundering with the help of the layered approach of neural networks. The first layer of the neural network processes a raw data input like the amount of the transaction and passes it on to the next layer as output. The second layer processes the previous layer’s information by including additional information like the user's IP address and passes on its result. The next layer takes the second layer’s information and includes raw data like geographic location and makes the machine’s pattern even better. This continues across all levels of the neuron network. We aim to use these benefits of neural network and implement a Deep Recurrent Neural Network. We will also perform a comparative analysis with the main neural networks ANN and RNN to find which models perform better.


## Data
SOURCE : https://www.kaggle.com/ntnu-testimon/paysim1

This is a synthetic dataset generated using the simulator called PaySim as an approach to such a problem. PaySim uses aggregated data from the private dataset to generate a synthetic dataset that resembles the normal operation of transactions and injects malicious behaviour.PaySim simulates mobile money transactions based on a sample of real transactions extracted from one month of financial logs from a mobile money service implemented in an African country. The original logs were provided by a multinational company, who is the provider of the mobile financial service which is currently running in more than 14 countries all around the world.


## Headers
This is a sample of 1 row with headers explanation:

1 , PAYMENT , 1060.31 , C429214117 , 1089.0 , 28.69 , M1591654462 , 0.0 , 0.0 , 0 , 0

* step - maps a unit of time in the real world. In this case 1 step is 1 hour of time. Total steps 744 (30 days simulation).
* type - CASH-IN, CASH-OUT, DEBIT, PAYMENT and TRANSFER.
* amount - amount of the transaction in local currency.
* nameOrig - customer who started the transaction
* oldbalanceOrg - initial balance before the transaction
* newbalanceOrig - new balance after the transaction
* nameDest - customer who is the recipient of the transaction
* oldbalanceDest - initial balance recipient before the transaction. Note that there is not information for customers that start with M (Merchants).
* newbalanceDest - new balance recipient after the transaction. Note that there is not information for customers that start with M (Merchants).
* isFraud - This is the transactions made by the fraudulent agents inside the simulation. In this specific dataset the fraudulent behavior of the agents aims to profit by taking control or customers accounts and try to empty the funds by transferring to another account and then cashing out of the system.
* isFlaggedFraud - The business model aims to control massive transfers from one account to another and flags illegal attempts. An illegal attempt in this dataset is an attempt to transfer more than 200.000 in a single transaction.
